Documentation for the GDScript documentation comments (#3892)
godotengine/godot-docs: getting_started/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_documentation_comments.rst

    ## @tutorial(Tutorial2): http://the/tutorial2/url.com
    ##

.. warning:: If there is any space in between the tag name and colon, for example 
             ``@desc  :``, it won't treated as a valid tag and will be ignored.

.. note:: When the description is multi line, the preceding and trailing white
          spaces will be striped and joined with a single space. To preserve the line 
          break (or any other alignment) use
          :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.

Documenting script members
--------------------------

Documentation of a script member must immediately precede the member or its
annotations if it has any. The exception to this is enum values whose description should
be on the same line as the enum for readability. 
The description can have more than one line but every line must start
with the double hash symbol ``##`` to be considered as part of the documentation.
The script documentation will update in the editor help window every time the
script is updated. If any member variable or function name starts with an
underscore it will be treated as private. It will not appear in the documentation and
will be ignored in the help window.

> Members that are applicable for the documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members that are applicable for the documentation:
```

- Inner class
- Constant
- Function
- Signal
- Variable
- Enum
- Enum value

Examples
--------

::

    extends Node2D
	
    ## 
    ## A brief description of your script.
    ##
    ## @desc:
    ##     The description of the script, what it
    ##     can do, and any further detail.
    ## 
    ## @tutorial:            http://the/tutorial1/url.com
    ## @tutorial(Tutorial2): http://the/tutorial2/url.com
    ##
    

>     ## The description of the variable v1

Reviewer: Always end descriptions with a period for consistency with the official class reference:

```suggestion
    ## The description of the variable v1.
```

    var v1
    
    ## This is a multi line description of the variable v2. The type
    ## information below will be extracted for the documentation.
    var v2: int
    
    ## If the member has any annotation, the annotation should
    ## immediately precede it.
    @export
    @onready
    var v3 := some_func()
    

>     ## The description of a constant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## The description of a constant.
```

    const GRAVITY = 9.8
	

>     ## The description of a signal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## The description of a signal.
```

    signal my_signal
    
    ## This is a description of the below enums. Note below that
    ## the enum values are documented on the same line as the enum.
    enum Direction {

>         UP    = 0,  ## Direction up
>         DOWN  = 1,  ## Direction down
>         LEFT  = 2,  ## Direction left
>         RIGHT = 3,  ## Direction right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        UP    = 0,  ## Direction up.
        DOWN  = 1,  ## Direction down.
        LEFT  = 2,  ## Direction left.
        RIGHT = 3,  ## Direction right.
```

    }
    

>     ## As the following function is documented, even though its name starts with
>     ## an underscore it will appear in the help window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ## As the following function is documented, even though its name starts with
    ## an underscore, it will appear in the help window.
```

>     func _fn(p1:int, p2:String) -> int:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    func _fn(p1: int, p2: String) -> int:
```

        return 0
    
    # The below function isn't documented and its name starts with an underscore 
    # so it will treated as private and will not be shown in the help window.
    func _internal() -> void:
        pass
    
    ## Documenting an inner class.
    ## 
    ## @desc: The same rules apply apply here. The documentation must
    ##        immediately precede the class definition.
    ##     
    ## @tutorial: http://the/tutorial/url.com
    class Inner:
    

>         ## inner class variable v4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ## Inner class variable v4.
```

        var v4
    

>         ## inner class function fn 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ## Inner class function fn.
```

.. _doc_gdscript_documentation_comments:

GDScript documentation comments
===============================

> In GDScript comments can be used to document your code and add description to the 
> members of a script. The difference between a normal comment and a documentation
> comment is that the documentation comment should starts with double hash symbols
> ``##`` and it  must immediately precede a script member or the top of the script
> if the description is about the script. If an exported variable is documented,
> it's description is used as a tooltip in the editor. These documentations can be
> generated as XML files by the editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In GDScript, comments can be used to document your code and add description to the 
members of a script. There are two differences between a normal comment and a documentation
comment. Firstly, a documentation comment should start with double hash symbols
``##``. Secondly, it must immediately precede a script member, or for script descriptions, 
be placed at the top of the script. If an exported variable is documented,
it's description is used as a tooltip in the editor. This documentation can be
generated as XML files by the editor.
```

Documenting a script
--------------------

> Documentation of a script must comes before any other member documentations. The
> script documentation could be divided into three parts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comments documenting a script must come before any member documentation. A 
suggested format for script documentation can be divided into three parts.
```

> - A brief description about the script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A brief description of the script
```

> - Description of the script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Detailed description
```

- Tutorials

> To separate these from each other, the documentation comment use special tags
> inside the comments with the tag name followed by an at sign ``@`` and
> immediately before a colon also they must be at the beginning of a line ignoring
> the preceding white spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To separate these from each other, the documentation comments use special tags.
The tag must be at the beginning of a line (ignoring preceding white space) and has
the format ``@``, followed by the keyword and finishing with a colon.
```

Tags
~~~~

+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+

> | Brief description | No tag and the brief must be at the very beginning of  |
> |                   | the documentation section.                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Brief description | No tag and lives at the very beginning of  |
|                   | the documentation section.                             |
```

+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
| Description       | ``@desc:``                                             |
|                   |                                                        |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
| Tutorial          | ``@tutorial[( The Title Here )]:``                     |
|                   |                                                        |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+

**Example:**

::

    extends Node2D
	
    ## 
    ## A brief description about your script.
    ##
    ## @desc:

>     ##     The description about the script, what it
>     ##     can do, how to do that and everything.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ##     A more detailed description of the script.
```

    ## 
    ## @tutorial:            http://the/tutorial1/url.com
    ## @tutorial(Tutorial2): http://the/tutorial2/url.com
    ##

> .. warning:: If there is any space in between the tag name and colon ``@desc  :``
>              it won't treated as a valid tag and ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. warning:: If there is any space in between the tag name and colon, for example 
             ``@desc  :``, it won't treated as a valid tag and will be ignored.
```

> .. note:: When the description is multi line the preceding and trailing white
>           spaces will be striped and joined with a single space. If the line 
>           break (or any other alignment) is intended use
>           :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: When the description is multi line, the preceding and trailing white
          spaces will be striped and joined with a single space. To preserve the line 
          break (or any other alignment) use
          :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.
```

Documenting script members
--------------------------

> Documentation of a script member must immediately precede the member or it's
> annotations if it has any **except for enum values** which's description is should
> be at the the same line as it is. It's designed like this for a better readability
> and look. The description could have more than one line but every line must starts
> with the double hash symbol ``##`` to be considered as it's part of the documentation.
> The script documentation will update in the editor help window every time the
> script updated and if any member variable or function name starts with an
> underscore and undocumented it'll treated as private for the documentation and
> ignored in the in the help window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Documentation of a script member must immediately precede the member or its
annotations if it has any. The exception to this is enum values whose description should
be on the same line as the enum for readability. 
The description can have more than one line but every line must start
with the double hash symbol ``##`` to be considered as part of the documentation.
The script documentation will update in the editor help window every time the
script is updated. If any member variable or function name starts with an
underscore it will be treated as private. It will not appear in the documentation and
will be ignored in the help window.
```

Members that are applicable for the documentation

- Inner class
- Constant
- Function
- Signal
- Variable
- Enum
- Enum value

Examples
--------

::

    extends Node2D
	
    ## 

>     ## A brief description about your script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## A brief description of your script.
```

    ##
    ## @desc:

>     ##     The description about the script, what it
>     ##     can do, how to do that and everything.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ##     The description of the script, what it
    ##     can do, and any further detail.
```

    ## 
    ## @tutorial:            http://the/tutorial1/url.com
    ## @tutorial(Tutorial2): http://the/tutorial2/url.com
    ##
    

>     ## the description about the variable v1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## The description of the variable v1
```

    var v1
    

>     ## multi line description about the variable v2. the type
>     ## information will be extracted below for the documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## This is a multi line description of the variable v2. The type
    ## information below will be extracted for the documentation.
```

    var v2: int
    

>     ## if there are any annotation the member has, then it should
>     ## immediately precede them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## If the member has any annotation, the annotation should
    ## immediately precede it.
```

    @export
    @onready
    var v3 := some_func()
    

>     ## the description of a constant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## The description of a constant
```

    const GRAVITY = 9.8
	

>     ## the description of a signal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## The description of a signal
```

    signal my_signal
    

>     ## it's the enum description and see below the exception for 
>     ## the enum values which are documented on the same line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## This is a description of the below enums. Note below that
    ## the enum values are documented on the same line as the enum.
```

    enum Direction {

>         UP    = 0,  ## direction up
>         DOWN  = 1,  ## direction down
>         LEFT  = 2,  ## direction left
>         RIGHT = 3,  ## direction right

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        UP    = 0,  ## Direction up
        DOWN  = 1,  ## Direction down
        LEFT  = 2,  ## Direction left
        RIGHT = 3,  ## Direction right
```

    }
    

>     ## since the below function is documented even it's name starts with
>     ## an underscore, it'll be updated in the editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## As the following function is documented, even though its name starts with
    ## an underscore it will appear in the help window.
```

    func _fn(p1:int, p2:String) -> int:
        return 0
    

>     # the below function isn't documented and starts with an underscore name
>     # so this will treated as private and will not be updated in the editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The below function isn't documented and its name starts with an underscore 
    # so it will treated as private and will not be shown in the help window.
```

    func _internal() -> void:
        pass
    

>     ## About the inner class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## Documenting an inner class.
```

    ## 

>     ## @desc: same rules like script description applies here, and It must
>     ##        immediately precede the class definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## @desc: The same rules apply apply here. The documentation must
    ##        immediately precede the class definition.
```

    ##     
    ## @tutorial: http://the/tutorial/url.com
    class Inner:
    
        ## inner class variable v4
        var v4
    
        ## inner class function fn 
        func fn(): pass

BBCode and class reference
--------------------------

> The editor help window which renders the documentation supports :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`,
> so it's possible to align and format the documentations and in addition color texts, images, fonts, tables,
> urls, animation effects, etc. could be added with the :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The editor help window which renders the documentation supports :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.
As a result it's possible to align and format the documentation. Color texts, images, fonts, tables,
URLs, animation effects, etc. can be added with the :ref:`bbcode <doc_bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`.
```

> Godot's class reference supports BBCode-like tags. They add nice formatting to the text which could also

Reviewer 2: BBCode is already documented. Please change this to link to the existing BBcode documentation so it's not duplicated.
